Hey guys, welcome back.
OK, so this is the follow along section, where you get to
watch me do the things that we just talked about doing.
We're going to do this throughout the entire course, so
you get to ride along as I try different things to see if
they work and see if they don't.
OK, so this lecture specifically, we're
first going to talk about what do you do if you can't get
the account name on Instagram that you want, and
then we're going to talk about what I did for my name.
OK.
So, first off, this happens all the time, every time
you want to create a new account, this happens,
because, as it turns out that Instagram
has like 600 million registered users,
a lot of those are inactive.
OK, so a lot of accounts are just sitting there, not
doing anything, or someone else already has them.
It's kind of like, I don't know, pretty much everywhere
else on the internet, like buying domains, it's
really hard to get good domains
anymore because they're all taken.
*I'll look for you, I will find you, and I will kill you.*
OK.
Instagram has the same problem.
So if you find something, like I said, an account name
that you really, really want, you think it's perfect
for what you're doing, it really just comes
down to one of two things.
One, is it being used?
OK.
If it is being used, you can just tell by looking
at how many followers do they have,
how many posts do they have,
when's the last time they posted.
Go to the first or the last post in their feed and
then look at the time stamp underneath it.
OK.
That's generally a good way of telling. If it's been in
the last, say, 3-4 months, I would consider it active.
And the other thing is whether or not you can
figure out some way of prying it from the person.
OK.
So the first question, whether or not it's active,
you just have to go and look at it.
OK.
If it is active, I personally suggest giving up.
At that point, it doesn't really make sense.
It's really hard to pry a used account from someone
and want something they're actually using. If they have
no use for it, then it's a totally different question.
So if that's the case, just give up.
But if it's the case that it's inactive, like, you went and looked at it, and it hasn't been used since 2014 or even a year and a half ago,
then proceed to step two.
Now, step two is you do one of two things.
I mean, one, you just try to reach out to them
and start a dialogue about what they want.
Are they using the account? What they
would want in return for the account?
A lot of times people would just give it to you for free,
because they're nice people. Don't count on that though.
Other times you have to buy them from people,
and then a lot of times you just can't,
they won't sell it to you or you
can't even get a hold of them.
That happens all the time, but almost 50% of the
times you find an inactive account, they either
don't respond or they just don't want to
sell it to you or just give it to you at all.
The only thing you can really do if that's the case,
if you've just stonewalled every single step in
the process, is, especially in the US, at least, you
can file a trademark. Now, if you file a trademark,
then you can essentially submit that to Instagram,
and sometimes they will rule in your
favor and take the account for you.
OK.
It's a little heavy handed, I'll say that much.
If you have the money and the time and you really,
really want your account, then it is an option for you.
Just keep in mind, it takes months
of time, hundreds of dollars,
a lot of attention and attention to detail, and we don't
actually know necessarily if it will work every single time.
I mean, if I gave it a success rate,
I'd say probably 60% of the time it works.
So, really, the key is, if you are going to file a trademark
to take someone's account, come down to whether
or not you're in the same industry roughly and whether or
not people would confuse your trademark with their name.
OK, so a lot of times what you can do is you can just
file a trademark that's identical to what theirs
is, and then pick an industry that's similar enough.
Sometimes it's a little bit hard with the trademark office,
because they want to make sure you're actually a business,
but there's other ways of getting around that.
And then you have to make sure that
the names are similar enough, right?
So in Instagram, you don't have spaces
in the names, you have an @ symbol.
Sometimes they'll say that that's
not similar enough to your name.
So if you want to do that, make sure that you trademark
something in the internet space, or social media,
or something that has to do with the account, because
it has to look like, if a consumer actually saw it,
they might actually get confused about it, they might
think that your business and that account are related.
That's really your only shot there.
If you want to actually trademark it,
the best way to do it is just online.
I mean, you could do it if you go out and get a lawyer and
have them manually do it, it's going to be really expensive.
There's simpler ways.
One option is Legal Zoom, I think
they charge you like $200 to do it.
They're a little more expensive,
but their service is a lot better.
And then another option is like Trademark Plus.
There's a bunch of these places, and they work fine.
You know, this one's $50, but they don't give you as much
support, they're going to walk you through it as well,
their product is just a little crappier.
So if you couldn't deal with that, just, I don't
know, pick which one fits your budget.